0. The Fifteen (British Event)


It’s been eight years now since Scotland’s annexation into Great Britain and now with the arrival of a German king in sections of Scottish society that grievance burns hot. Picking his moment well, that Catholic scoundrel James Francis Stuart has snuck over the sea to Scotland, where he has tapped that well with his loyal clans. 


My King, we have a civil war on our hands. 


Yet do not fear! While the Highland barbarians may be marching southwards, lowland Scots have flocked to our colours to stop them in their own lands. You must beat him just as William did his father, lest this French puppet claim the British throne, unravel the Union and return Romanism to these lands! 


Choice a) Defending your home, your King and your Laws, is defending your God and the Protestant Cause!


Continue playing as Britain.


Choice b) The time has come to throw out these foreign German Pretenders, pray hark loyal Britons, your king has returned!


Play as Jacobite Scotland. 


0.1. The Fifteen Triumphant! (British Event)


The world stands in awe - Landing originally with just a few thousand men but soon raising a grand army of Highlanders, James has reclaimed his father’s throne. What strategic genius and strength of heart was required to achieve this astounds every onlooker. Now he has set to work delivering on his promises: a federal “Three Kingdoms” arrangement for Britain, rewarding his Irish and Scottish supporters, and has re-legalised Catholicism, toppling the Protestant establishment. Convocation is underway to reunite the Anglican and Catholic churches, and the Scottish Presbyterians are to be destroyed once more as under “the Killing Time”. The dispatching of George back to Hannover has not only shaped Britain’s life, but all Europe’s, for now Louis has an ally in Britain. 


Choice a) The King enjoys his own again at last!
The Jacobite Britain event chain will be started. 
Tories become ruling party, revert to Absolute Monarchy.


0.2. The Rebellion Crushed! (British Event)


George I, the Protestant Warrior-King, has won yet another victory. The British crown and religion is defended, and James has snuck back over the waves to France with his tail between his legs. Now what remains to be done is to reward the loyal - the Duke of Argyll, the Lowland Scottish regiments, brother Protestants. God save the King! Heil dir Hannover!


Choice a) And don’t come back! Who’s for champagne?


1. The Atterbury Plot (British Event)


The Scottish Jacobites may have been defeated seven years ago, but there remains, deep within the English state and church, a ready fifth column of radical Tories. United in their schemes by Dr Francis Atterbury, they plot the paralysing of the British navy as to allow the Irish Brigade to sneak over the channel, and then the rich Tory lords shall raise their armies to carry George from the throne! Now they have found and avenue to carry off the plan, almost perfectly, as the Whigs are engulfed in the South Sea Bubble and all the apparatus of state is distracted by the dying economy. However, Walpole may be beginning to get wise to their scheme.


Choice a) Walpole, why don’t you ask Carteret about those French letters?


The plot is defeated.


Choice b) Walpole’s corrupt, Whiggish nose must be kept out at all costs. We must accelerate our plans!




1.1 Atterbury Succeeds! (British Event)


In 1688 they said a Protestant Wind stopped the Royal Navy from preventing William’s invasion. What can they say now? With the Channel Squadron at anchor thanks to its links to the plotters, a flotilla of fast-moving transports shot the Irish Brigade across the sea and into London. While George tried to scrape together resistance, more and more officers stalled in confusion. Meanwhile, some regiments deserted wholesale to the Jacobite cause. Sick of the poverty and economic failures, many Londoners welcomed James with friendliness or indifference. The Whigs however, have been carried from Parliament and George placed on an ignominious boat back to Germany. If 1688 was the Glorious Revolution, then this must go down as the Glorious Restoration.


Choice a) Lo! How God rewards the faithful!


The Jacobite Britain event chain will be started. 






2. Wha’ll be King but Charlie? The Young Pretender Lands at Moidart. (British Event)


The Highland clans with sword in hand
Frae John o Groats’ tae Airlie
Hae tae a man declared to stand
Or fa wi Royal Charlie.


Across the Scottish Highlands today the pibroch sounds, and kilted Highlanders pour out of the mountain glens, sword and musket in hand, to see with their own eyes their “True King’s” own son, Prince Charlie. One by one they swear fealty: Camerons of Lochiel, Frasers of Lovat, MacDonalds of Glencoe, the list goes on. Already they have swarmed the Highland garrisons with vengeful fury. These young Scots are determined to accomplish what their fathers failed in ‘15, and this time many Lowlanders seem to be giving them worryingly little resistance. “Bonnie Prince Charlie” as he is known could well be in London in weeks if we don’t ask fast! We must not let their banners speak the truth - “Triumphant at Last” - Tandem Triumphans!


Choice a) Talk of sedition hush, rebellious Scots to crush, God save the King! 


Play as Great Britain


Choice b) For the King Over the Water Lads! God Save the King!


Play as Jacobite Scotland








2.1 The Rape of the Highlands - The Rebellion in Ruins (British Event)


Much to the nation’s celebration, the Franco-Catholic stooge Charles has been driven from British shores! With the King’s own brother in command, the Jacobite army was finally crushed in bloody fashion, with our loyal Redcoats instructed to “take no prisoners.” In order to ensure this cannot happen again, the British Government intends to destroy the Highland way of life: not only by a series of harsh anti-clan penal laws, but by letting loose the full force of his majesty’s army on the villages and towns of these barbarians. From a rain-soaked boat tossing and turning on a Western Isles storm, the Young Pretender is left to torture himself with thoughts of his failure. Instead of the court of London, all he has for company is loyal Flora MacDonald, and the ghosts of his men bayoneted on the battleground. 


Choice a) Damn shame we didn’t catch him! Nevertheless, I expect we shan’t be hearing from them again! Huzzah!




2.2 Clansmen in London! By God’s Divine Will Charles is Triumphant! (Jacobite Event)


To the skirrell of the pipes Prince Charlie’s Highland army carries him through the streets. English Jacobites swarm the streets to celebrate, and the English Jacobite regiments picked up along the way join the victorious parade. For his father, Charles has claimed the throne with his sword. British armies may have attempted to stand in his way, but God himself stood beside him on the battlefield. The Protestant cause has been struck a mortal blow, and immediately Charles stormed Parliament, capturing many members. It shall not see much use henceforth. The people of England, Scotland and Ireland have no need of such an oligarchic Parcel of Rogues. The Royal Navy has communicated to Charles that it shall not intercept his coming father. Now the real business of fixing the Three Kingdoms must begin, we shall pray God shows the same favour in this business as he did in battle!


Choice a) Come, we shall sing victory till our throats bleed! Who wouldn’t die for Charlie?


The Jacobite Britain event chain will be started.