0. Famines & Fiascos: Scotland in 1700 (Scottish Event)


This last century has not been kind to the people of Scotland. Bruce may have won Scotland’s independence back, but through a dynastic accident in 1603 we found ourselves again shackled to England, with our Scottish king electing to rule from London. What followed was an era of religious extremism, bloody wars and economic hardship. Most recently, the weak Scottish economy has been battered by seven continuous years of terrible famine, killing 15% of our population. Our greatest effort at securing for ourselves an overseas source of wealth as our neighbours have has been an unmitigated disaster. At Darien in Panama, our last ship is preparing to leave the place of horror. William’s arrival may have fixed the worst of the religious issues, but now an idea is being floated of union with England - can Scotland really survive on its own? Over the sea in France lies our former king, James, who commands a great deal of loyalty among the Highland clans, stands poised to return. The challenge is great: we will need a miracle to save Scotland, though God was forthcoming on the fields of Bannockburn...


Choice a) Oh my country, how I weep for my country. 


1. The Accession of Anne (English and Scottish Event) 


With King William III’s death, the Act of Settlement has the crowns skip the Papist James, and go to his wife Mary’s sister Anne. She has already expressed desires to see Scotland and England united into one realm, and to prosecute the war to a finish. However, some question how much this Protestant succession will really solve, of her seventeen pregnancies, not one child has lived past eleven, but on this joyous coronation day we must put all doubts behind us! 


Choice a) God Save the Queen!


2. The Bill of Union (Scottish Event)


Flavour text explaining riots, the political situation


Choice a) The Squadrone shall push through this blessed Union!

The Bill passes into law - Great Britain forms, Game Over


Choice b) I wonder how long it’ll be until the Union has a Scottish Prime Minister?

The Bill passes into law - Great Britain forms, tag switch Great Britain


Choice c) We will not be bought and sold for English gold!

The Bill fails - Continue as independent spheroid 


2.1 The Act Fails! (English Event)


Our northern “allies” have spurned the treaty we worked so hard to negotiate, insulting our Parliament, negotiators and Queen. It may have been voted down, but we still have a great deal of support among Lowlander Presbyterians who fear a return of the Pretender. Perhaps it is time to remind them of their station? Or shall we just continue to let them wallow in their own poverty?


Choice a) Those Scots truly are a refractory people. Oh well. 

England does nothing, event chain over.


Choice b) This is tantamount to Jacobitism! We must teach them their place!


England triggers 2.2


2.2 English Threats! (Scottish Event)


Today in the Scottish Parliament a great letter bearing the seal of Queen Anne was read aloud. On almost every line MPs were breathtaken, for it was a thinly coated accusation of treason - Parliament had betrayed their Queen at her moment of need. With this accusation comes a threat, a reminder of the Queen’s power over Parliament and the fact that she is prepared to use it. 




Choice a) Farewell even to our Scottish name, so famed in martial story...


Game Over, Britain forms.


Choice b) Since when did Scottish swords sleep in cowards’ scabbards? Invite the Pretender! Rally the Clans! 


Ruling Party switches to Cavalier, Covenanter (Protestant Religious) rebels rise in the Lowlands, declare war on England






3. The Kingdom of Great Britain (British Event)


With the final uniting of the island of Great Britain a new era for her people can begin. Under the stalwart and Protestant leadership of our Queen, we shall know no fear or disunity. The Scottish regiments have already joined the English army and the first imperial profits for Scottish merchants are on their way across the Atlantic. The world has best remember the Union flag, they shall be seeing a great deal more of on every continent. The kingdoms of Scotland and England are figments of the past, consigned to dusty tomes. The future shall be written by the two as one!


Choice a) Angels shall sing of our new nation for all time!